Hi everyone. Today is Wednesday, April
the 1st, and this is the Money Ball
Morning Report.
We've got charts by Trend Spider,
gamma flows by Mentor Q, and we begin
taking a look at the euro dollar.
Actually, this is the dollar euro. So,
we had these pretty dramatic spikes out
of this very large range, and as I
mentioned,
really a very bad thing would be for the
dollar to break out.
Now, you might say, "Well, why is that a
bad thing?" Well, it's because the whole
world hinges on our debt.
And we we just don't want that to
happen. Now, if we're travelers like I
am, you know, you love it when the
dollar's strong, but it really, you
know, it's always give and take.
Something goes someplace, and if our
dollar strengthens, then our products
for export become much more expensive.
It's very, very difficult for us to
really have good earnings for our
international flows. So, what we've had
in the last couple of days is this
dollar fade. So, take a peek.
Now, I have been
chanting, literally, that
the market and the dollar are very
closely correlated right now. And it's
because we're under one,
a geopolitical event, and two,
the level that the dollar is at makes
things tenuous. So, the closer we get to
this level, the more correlated the
markets will be. Now that it's coming in
a little bit, we'll be watching for
price action. That being said, let's
take a look at the big picture and start
with
the ES.
E-mini S&P 500.
Let's take a look at what we're after.
Now, remember, the 200 becomes the most
important thing to watch, and here it
is. It's up here.
And this number is about 66
70-ish. I believe it's 6661,
or something like that, in the SPX, but
that's where the traders are after. This
200, right? As I mentioned,
statistically speaking, it is the most
important indicator that you will see on
your chart, because that's what big
money flows follow. And that's the only
reason. It's not that there's anything
magical about it. All right. So, now we
know what's going on.
If you're listening to people going,
"This bounce is whatever." Fill in
whatever expletive.
Just realize,
we talked about this Sunday,
every big house is coming out saying,
"Listen, you got to prepare for a
bounce. You got to prepare for a
bounce." A lot of things were completely
oversold,
and this is simply
a reflexive bounce. The question is,
what's going to happen up here?
My thought is,
so many people are looking at this 200
that these wicks are entirely likely,
which push us up into the call wall,
which is 6800. So, let's go over our
numbers.
First of all,
in the last few days,
we can see that our value area is
sitting underneath us very tight. So, we
were coiling and then moving up. Let's
talk about where we are
in terms of
everything else. The put wall
is sitting right on top of the central
pivot at 6500. That's what we have to
watch. So, the put wall is there. We've
moved from negative gamma to positive
gamma. So, volatility is going to come
in,
and dips are buys, in general.
We know we're headed up to this 6680.
It might be that the relief rally
stalls, comes all the way back down to
value area, and they try it again. This
is actually my suspicion, that we rotate
from down to up to down to up to down to
up, and then, you know, we resolve
downward. From uh statistical
perspective, that's apparently where
we're headed for the summer.
Okay. So, now we're staring this down,
and what we can see today is dips are
buys. Let's look at how strong the
formation is. Call wall up here at 6800,
value area high,
6490, value area low, 6400. So, we got
about 90 points sitting here. If we
added up to the top, that's 6590, and
then if we added up again, it's 6680.
And so, we can see that that measured
move is about 2x of this value area that
we're staring down.
All right.
Our pivot, as I mentioned, 6500.
Yesterday's pivot, 6407. So, the pivot
is almost 100 ES points higher. It's
pretty dramatic. It's really dramatic,
but that's what happens when sellers
have to turn around and buy the market
to get out of their shorts, and indeed,
if they see the rise into the daily 200,
they want to buy to get part of that
upward move into that space. The
recovery of the 200 and staying up over
the 200 is going to shift the market
structure dramatically, and we could
have really an epic short squeeze
in general, but we're not looking at
that yet.
We are above the last 30-minute
candlestick of yesterday.
We are above the Globex open
candlestick. We are above
the 4-hour candlestick, but not by much.
This is what we're dancing around right
now. We've had 2 and 1/2 hours since
Europe opened up, and they're trying to
get up over the top of that 4:00 a.m.
candle.
Where's the VWAP? It's below us as
support.
Where's the 200? Well below us. Where's
the 50? Where's this 100? I can't
remember. I think this is the 50.
Let's see.
Yes. The 50 well below us, and this line
here at 6550,
I think that becomes our rotation event,
because that's the difference between
positive gamma and negative gamma. Okay?
So, rotationally, that's what we're
staring down up into these zones of
interest.
What do we want to look for?
Well, how does 9:30 open? 9:30, it's
going to be pretty important. We want to
see it rise
and close above this 4:00 a.m. candle.
If we do that, it's another trend up
day.
Another trend up day. See how it worked
out here?
We called the trend upward.
This 9:00 candle is going to say, "Hey,
let's see if we trend." If we do not
trend, the first thing that's going to
happen is we're going to break the 4:00
to 4:30 candlestick low. So, that's
going to be for aggressive longs, if we
lose 6590,
step aside.
Let it come into
the 30-minute
closing,
3:00 to 3:30,
in that space, 6560, and again, 6550.
You could short it. You'd be under the
VWAP, but it'd be counter trend, so it's
better to short the bounce that fails,
the look above and fail, as JJ says.
All right. So, that's what we're staring
down
in general. Momentum,
negative. So, here's the one thing that
tells us we don't have a ton of energy
heading to the upside, and that is this
negative momentum as price action holds
steady. The problem is that they're
still holding higher lows. So, all that
negative momentum means is I'm searching
for the higher low.
If, per happenstance, I'm totally wrong,
and we lose 6550,
the central pivot at 6500 is where we're
headed. Very low volume node. That's
entirely likely. Okay? It's going to try
and bounce again off that 200, where the
value area high is sitting. Okay. NQ.
Let's have a go.
Daily, let's see where their 200 is. The
200 on the NQ, 200 simple moving
average,
is right at value area low for the broad
daily chart. That's 24,576.
Let's go to the 30-minute,
and let's do our assessment.
Where are we in terms of price
relative to the chart? Well,
we're dancing around the VWAP, but the
VWAP is generally positive. We have
negative momentum
relative to price.
Our central pivot is well below us,
23,615.
Value area high is 23,658.
Value area low is also support level one
at 23,250.
So, what's the storyboard?
50 simple moving average up, 200 down,
but flattening.
This is pullbacks are buy only. With the
negative momentum,
the go no-go line in my mind,
if we can't stay above
23,980,
let's say,
we are going to try to fill in
the flow
into the zero DTE pivot. Excuse me, the
zero DTE gamma line. And that's 23,800.
That looks like a stopping point to me
because it matches the 50 at this
juncture. Now, dips or rise
all the way down to the central pivot.
But, if it loses this VWAP and does a
look above and fail,
we're going to have more downside flow.
What am I looking for for all of my
charts? I'm looking for
the deep dips that turn to buys
because I'm working everything relative
to that 200. I'm using it as my anchor
point.
So, if I'm staring things down, I'm
going to go if I say, "Hey, I'm going to
look at a 5-minute." I'm going to wait
for it to come in to that 200
and then see if I can take it there from
a 5-minute formation.
If it breaks, I'm out very quickly.
And I can reset. But, this bullish line
and my momentum tells me that my dips or
rise.
So, that's that's my anchor point.
Put wall
23,000, same as before. Call wall
24,750.
Let's go to Bitcoin.
This one should have had a pretty good
bounce.
Huh, sadly, not not too great. All
right. So, here we have Bitcoin. It's
been struggling for 3 days.
Is it above the 200? Yes, but the 200 is
sloping down.
So, this tells me that my bounces are
going to be sell zones.
And so,
the sell zone
comes all the way into support
and then we'll try a buy again because
it is a cross current and we are
slightly above zero here in our momentum
oscillator.
We are above the pivot.
We're above the call wall. The pivot is
67,770.
The call wall is 68,500.
The VWAP is 68,000
676.
So, a lot of support here.
We are
above the 330 close
of yesterday.
Our opening range candlestick was above
that 330. We came in, tested our pivot,
and then have moved all the way up. Our
4:00 a.m. candlestick,
well, we're sitting right in the middle
of it. So, again, this is the sticky
bit.
You could try the buy at 68,500,
68,490.
But, if it fails,
it's very likely to head into the point
of control,
which is
60 68,000
round and about. That collapses right
into the 200 simple moving average. So,
that will probably be a magnet today.
All right? Look for the dips that buy
across the board. And because we moved
up so sharply in some of these others,
the market is going to try and trade
against it.
All right. Let's take a look at oil.
Oil is still up above 100.
Dips are still buys. It had a low this
morning.
Um
9661.
Holy cow.
I wonder what kind of news that was.
Um
Everybody is
talking about, you know, this, that, and
the other. The Bank of England has got a
ton of stuff
um
on Financial Juice this morning. So,
they had their they had their meeting
talking about recession and the like.
The 10338 remains this resistance zone.
This is a number I put from yesterday.
Let's head into 30-minute chart.
The gamma line is um
Well, okay, the call wall is $110.
The put wall continues to rise. It's now
$90, right? It was what, 55 bucks
yesterday? Crazy. We're in positive
flow.
$77.
Below 77 we'll get to negative gamma.
Probably not going to happen, folks.
Probably not going to happen. All right.
So, what are we staring down?
Today looks bearish.
We're under the pivot.
We're trying to get above the VWAP.
We're trying to hold the 200. So, it's a
mixed bag. Underneath the pivot says
negative. But, if we get back above the
VWAP and the 200, it says we are hunting
for resistance. What is that likely
resistance? Well, it's the point of
control, 10186,
or it's the central pivot line.
Easily. That's what we're staring down.
Let's look at our Okay, that happened at
12:30. That's not the normal close.
All right, where is this one? Let's go
to our closing candle. That's 2:00 p.m.
Something sticky right
here [snorts]
at $100.44.
That That seems to make a little bit of
sense.
Somewhere around there. That's a pivot
from yesterday. So,
my thought is don't put a sell order
there. The central pivot and the POC, or
the point of control, are going to have
a bigger traction event
for the chart.
Especially since the 200 is upward.
Okay? So, you want to be careful about
that. The flows,
momentum
starting to break down. It's under zero,
but they are moving into resistance.
So, bounces are sells. You just have to
be super careful on the bounce because
as you know, things could get very
sticky very quickly in oil. And the
market is running a little contrary to
oil in general. Okay?
Let's take a look at gold.
Gold
continuing to rise.
It's well above
bounced off its 200 how many days ago? 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 days ago. Doing very nicely.
It's still in range and in value on the
day.
That's very interesting.
So,
what do we think about that? It could be
a resistance zone.
It could be.
If it is,
I
Huh.
Where's the daily line?
$40.
The call wall is
5,000
thereabouts. The put wall
4400 thereabouts.
Let's go to our 30-minute chart and
let's do some measurement. When is the
closing?
It's one of these candlesticks right
here for our closing formation.
So, we are well above that.
And that number is really at the central
pivot, 4623.
That's our clean support zone. The 200
is way down here. Momentum is divergent.
So, they are approaching resistance
in a bullish environment. So, it could
be that they are going to find higher
support zones to take the chart
north. So, where would that be?
Opening range candlestick low.
Other pre-market lows. 4679. That's the
go no-go line for me. If it loses that
edge, it's going to the central pivot of
4626.
It's in positive gamma flow. We are
above trend for all of the motions. The
4:00
a.m. candlestick, we're still in the
midst of it. We have not resolved. None
of our charts have resolved through
the European open yet. None of them. And
so, what this tells us is they're trying
to build structure here. If they break
out, we go to the north again. If they
break down, we're going to start
retracing our edges
and
that might give us another dip buy into
where the gamma flow sits. Very, very
interesting. Support level
one in the pivots is 4550.
200 on the simple moving average on the
30-minute chart is 4530.
SPY.
Today looks a little sticky to me.
Could easily go up or the sellers could
come in and try to fight for dominance.
Hard hard to say.
Why do I Why do I have this?
I don't want to see this.
All right.
Let's look at SPY and let's see where
their 200 is.
The 200 on SPY is
60.
A lot of sixes.
So,
put wall 630. We bounced off of that
very nicely. Call wall 700. We've had
that call wall there for a month of
Sundays, it feels like. So, what are
they trying to do? Get us back into
positive gamma flow. That's going to
pull down volatility. Market's going to
settle out.
So, that's what they're trying to do.
Now, will they get there? No clue. But,
what we do know is that value area low
on the daily chart is 673.
Let's go to the 30-minute. Let's see
what we've got. Man, that's super noisy.
I got to change the style of this. Hang
on 2 secs.
Okay. So, let's take a Let's take a long
look at what's happening here.
50 upside. We've had the
pivot rising. This is the third day that
the pivot's rising.
The 200 is below us and flat. The 50 is
below us and moving upward. We're above
the pivot. We're above the last 30
minutes of the trading day. We're above
the opening candle formation.
Uh in general, but we're still all of us
are dancing through
the high low range of the 4:00 a.m.
candlestick.
Right? So, a lot of
a lot of inactivity
here. It could be that we have some news
coming. I haven't looked at the
calendar. But, the buyers could also be
exhausted. And if that happens,
you know, they're going to take profit.
If they take profit, they're going to be
selling. If they sell, price is going to
come down. Where is Whoa, look at that
POC.
Okay, the point of control sticks out
like a sore thumb right there.
That's 647.
That's an interesting line in the sand.
That's probably the best buy zone for
us.
If they chase the market north, you
could follow along. That number is above
655 or the retest of 652.
Okay?
Dips are buys.
But, the dips could be savage. What you
want to do is just
trade small or not at all.
Market is always going to give you
something very interesting.
You're going to learn and grow with each
piece of it.
But, don't don't rush in, as the saying
goes. Only fools rush in. Right? So,
then measure yourself.
And this 4:00 a.m. candlestick is really
going to tell the tale across the board.
Okay, everybody. Take it easy.
And I'll see you on the streams.